Guidelines to follow while writing a professionalemail.
=======================================================

Email is both a major convenience and a ceaseless distraction. But,
regardless of how you feel about it at the present moment, one thing’s
for sure—it’s an unavoidable necessity. And, if we want to be
professional and get a point across in a way that’s clear, that’s
efficient, there are a few different etiquette rules we want to make
sure to keep in mind.

=&gt; Include a clear, direct, short subject line so that recipient will
be able to understand content of email faster and open it. =&gt;
Creating message: &gt; Begin with a greeting and for that use proper
professional salutation(use either Hi or Hello). &gt; First make a clear
picture of purpose of email in beginning of the message. &gt; Now move
on to main text of the email and make sure that sentences are short and
clear. Do not use all capital or all small case unless referring to a
known acronym or term that is familiar to the reader.Never use slang/
text speak/colloquiums. Avoid spelling and grammar mistakes. &gt;
Length: Keep your email as concise as possible. People tend to skim long
emails, so only include essential information. &gt; Font Style: Avoid
ornate, playful, or colored fonts; these simply distract the recipient
from your actual message. Avoid overusing bold and italics as well,
which make an email look cluttered. Do not write in all capital letters
either. The cardinal rule: Your emails should be easy for other people
to read. Generally, it is best to use 10- or 12- point type and an
easy-to-read font such as Arial, Calibri, or Times New Roman. Black
color is the best choice. &gt; Proofread every message: Mistakes won't
go unnoticed by the recipients of our email. Don't rely on
spell-checkers. Read and re-read email a few times, preferably aloud,
before sending it off. &gt; Add the email address last: when replying to
a message, it's a good precaution to delete the recipient's address and
insert it only when we are sure the message is ready to be sent and also
double-check that you've selected the correct recipient. &gt; A basic
guideline is to assume that others will see what we write. so don't
write anything you wouldn't want everyone to see. Don't write anything
that would be ruinous to you or hurtful to others. After all, email is
dangerously easy to forward, and it's better to be safe than sorry. &gt;
Before sending the email if prefer we can add some closing remarks like
thanking the recipient. &gt; End the email with appropriate closing
along with name.(Thank you or sincerely can be used).

=&gt; Example

subject:Updated google sheet.

Hi Aneesh,

I apologise for sending a mail which was not formal. From this email
onwards I will follow strict guidelines for a professional email.

I have updated google sheet accordingly. Please check it once. Sheet
Link -
https://github.com/smrithies/introduction/blob/master/githubbasics

Thanks & Regards SMRITHI E S Associate Software Engineer Pramati
Technologies
